by daily mail reporter
last updated at NUM pm on NUMth june NUM
allegation : us republican senator from arizona john mccain has accused illegal immigrants of starting wildfires
republican senator john mccain has accused illegal immigrants of starting wildfires raging across arizona , prompting a furious response from latino civil rights groups .
he spoke as thousands more arizona residents were evacuated from the paths of the biggest wildfires ever in the state 's history .
the fires are under investigation and no suspects have been named , but local media have run anecdotal reports of fires starting at known illicit border crossing points .
mr mccain said : ' there is substantial evidence that some of these fires have been caused by people who have crossed our border illegally .
' the answer to that part of the problem is to get a secure border . '
latino civil rights campaigners slammed the remarks , presented without any supporting evidence , as ' careless and reckless ' .
speaking to cnn , randy parraz , a latino democrat who ran against mr mccain in NUM , said : ' it 's easier to fan the flames of intolerance , especially in arizona ' .
firefighters are currently battling wildfires that have burned a combined NUM acres across the state .
mr mccain had suggested that illegal immigrants had started the fires to send signals , to keep warm or to distract border security .
but he did not pin down which fires were allegedly started by illegal immigrants , nor provide details of the ' substantial ' evidence he cited .
tragic : pete tunstall leans on his rake while at his home that burned along the south side of ramsey road near state route NUM
meanwhile thousands more people were driven from their homes as powerful winds pushed the flames from one wildfire towards populated areas .
the monument fire just south of the city of sierra vista was one of several blazing through dry brush and timber in arizona and new mexico where fire crews have been dogged for days by hot , windy weather .
about NUM people from NUM homes were evacuated on sunday as the blaze - which has been burning for a week - picked up speed with winds gusted up to NUMmph .
fire crews from rio rico and helmet peak mop up hot spots in a storage trailer in sierra vista , arizona , after the monument fire burned through the area overnight
' winds pushed fire across highway NUM , making run so fast and so hot that the danger to citizens in the path was significant , ' said cochise county sheriff 's spokesman carol capas .
the flames raced down a mountain and into a heavily populated area , forcing crews to abandon their lines and set up in new spots .
sunday 's evacuations brought the total number to about NUM people from NUM homes forced to flee the flames of the monument fire , she said .
fire trucks escape the flames near south andalusian way after the fire jumped state route NUM near sierra vista , arizona
evacuees have been staying with friends and relatives , at three evacuation shelters , and at local inns .
' this is horrible . this is a nightmare , ' debbie schmidlin told the arizona daily star .
she said she was evacuated twice in the past week from homes east and west of highway NUM .
' if this fire gets there , i 'm leaving arizona , ' she added , as she watched from behind police lines two miles north of her home .
the monument fire burns a hillside just south of sierra vista , arizona . authorities have ordered more evacuations
before the winds spread the flames earlier in the day , the blaze was reported NUM percent contained at about NUM acres or nearly NUM square miles .
in eastern arizona , the massive wallow fire that has been burning for three weeks kept about NUM residents of luna , new mexico , under an evacuation order for a second day .
a containment line that had held through days of high winds was breached on saturday and the fire raced toward town before shifting winds steered it clear .
it was moving to the north into an area of scattered ranches late on sunday afternoon , fire information officer michael puentes said .
flames are seen over homes in sierra vista , arizona . the biggest wildfire in state history is closing in on a half million acres burned .
despite the evacuation order for luna , about half the town 's residents remained in town .
' if the fire comes back around or things change where they have to get out , we still have an egress point , so we will still escort them out of town , ' catron county undersheriff ian fletcher said .
the wallow blaze has consumed nearly NUM square miles , a little more than NUM acres , and more than NUM firefighters were trying to stop its advance .
it is larger than a NUM fire that burned NUM square miles and destroyed NUM buildings that had been the largest in state history .
despite its size , the latest fire has destroyed just NUM homes and four rental cabins . containment rose to NUM percent sunday .
the wallow fire , which is burning up much of apache-sitgreaves national forest , is the largest of several wildfires burning in spots across the southwestern united states .
